#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass scrartcl
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{mciteplus}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks true
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\pdf_quoted_options "linkcolor=blue,citecolor=blue,urlcolor=blue"
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
MacIntire-Stennis Report for FY2016: Guam Forest Insect Survey
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Aubrey Moore
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset href
LatexCommand href
name "Project pages"
target "http://portal.nifa.usda.gov/web/crisprojectpages/1005269-guam-forest-insect-survey.html"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Progress 11/28/14 to 09/30/15 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Outputs
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Target Audience:I provided information to the Guam Plant Extinction Prevention
 Project staff and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service staff at
 the Guam National Wildlife Refuge.
 This information included identification of insect specimens given to me
 and recommendations on plant protection.
 Fact sheets on newly arrived invasive species were prepared and made available
 to the public in print and on web site.
 Changes/Problems:A planned visit by an insect taxonomist to assist in identific
ation of a large backlog in the University of Guam Insect Collection did
 not happen during the reporting period because of schedualing problems.
 A visit by a taxonomist is being planned for 2016.
 What opportunities for training and professional development has the project
 provided?Informal training in insect specimen collection and preservation
 was provided to staff of the Guam Plant Extinction Prevention Pogram (GPEPP)
 during several visits to the project's nursery and field sites.
 In some cases, pest control recommendations were provided.
 How have the results been disseminated to communities of interest?Fact
 sheets on newly arrived invasive insect species were prepared and these
 are available to the public in print and on-line.
 What do you plan to do during the next reporting period to accomplish the
 goals?I plan to offer a workshop to staff of the Guam Department of Agriculture
 Forestry Division on survey and collection methods for forest insect pests.
 I plan to submit two refereed journal articles on recently arrived bark
 beetles species.
 I plan to host a visiting taxonomist to help identify a large backlog of
 unidentified specimens submitted to the University of Guam Insect Collection.
 A student technician will be hired to coincide with the taxonomist's visit.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Impacts
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What was accomplished under these goals? A web application named CheckList
 Plus (CLP) was designed and developed to faciliate databasing and accessing
 information on Guam's forest pests.
 All organisms in CLP are linked to taxa in the taxonomy database maintained
 by the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI).
 The NCBI taxonomy database is essentially a digitized tree of life which
 includes scientific names and synonyms including common names.
 Unlike many biodiversity databases, CLP allows definiton of trophic links
 between taxa.
 This allows queries to find all insect herbivores which feed on a particular
 host plant, or conversely, to find all host plants on which a particular
 insect feeds.
 The CLP is currently being populated with data from several sources: the
 scientific literature and specimen data from the University of Guam Insect
 Collection.
 Many specimens of forest insect pests collected by the Guam Plant Extinction
 Prevention Program, the Guam National Wildlife Refuge, and other collaborators
 were accessioned into the University of Guam Insect Collection during the
 reporting period.
 Most of these specimens await identification by a taxonomist.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Publications
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Type: Conference Papers and Presentations Status: Published Year Published:
 2015 Citation: Ares, M.
 A., N.
 Meneses, A.
 Smith, Aubrey Moore, and R.
 Benford.
 2015.
 Molecular Identification of a Lepidopteran Herbivore on a Critically Endangered
 Tree.
 In Northern Arizona Undergraduate Symposium.
 Type: Journal Articles Status: Published Year Published: 2014 Citation:
 Fisher, Nicole, Aubrey Moore, Bradley Brown, Matthew Purcell, Gary Taylor,
 and John Salle.
 2014.
 Two New Species of Selitrichodes (Hymenoptera: Eulophidae: Tetrastichinae)
 Inducing Galls on Casuarina (Casuarinaceae).
 Zootaxa 3790 (4): 534{
\backslash
textendash}542.
 http://biotaxa.org/Zootaxa/article/view/zootaxa.3790.4.2/7933.
 Type: Journal Articles Status: Published Year Published: 2015 Citation:
 Moore, Aubrey, Trevor Jackson, Roland Quitugua, Paul Bassler, and Russell
 Campbell.
 2015.
 Coconut Rhinoceros Beetles ( Coleoptera : Scarabaeidae ) Develop in Arboreal
 Breeding Sites in Guam.
 Florida Entomologist 98 (3): 101214.
 http://journals.fcla.edu/flaent/article/download/84794/84044.
 Type: Conference Papers and Presentations Status: Published Year Published:
 2015 Citation: Moore, Aubrey, and Western Pacific.
 2015.
 Failure Analysis of the Guam Coconut Rhinoceros Beetle Eradication Project
 Aubrey Moore Western Pacific Tropical Research Center.
 In Pacific Entomology Conference, 12.
 Honolulu.
 Type: Conference Papers and Presentations Status: Published Year Published:
 2015 Citation: Moore, Aubrey, and Roland Quitugua.
 2015.
 Coconut Rhinoceros Beetle Trap Improvements.
 In Pacific Entomology Conference.
 Honolulu.
 http://guaminsects.net/anr/sites/default/files/pec2015-improved-traps.pdf.
 Type: Conference Papers and Presentations Status: Published Year Published:
 2015 Citation: Moore, Aubrey.
 2015.
 A Report on the Guam Coconut Rhinoceros Beetle Infestation.
 In Pacific Plant Protection Organization.
 Nadi, Fiji.
 Type: Conference Papers and Presentations Status: Published Year Published:
 2015 Citation: Marshall, Sean David Goldie, Maclean Vaqalo, Aubrey Moore,
 Roland Quitugua, and Trevor A Jackson.
 2015.
 A New Invasive Biotype of the Coconut Rhinoceros Beetle (Oryctes Rhinoceros)
 Has Escaped from Biocontrol by Oryctes Rhinoceros Nudivirus.
 In International Congress on Invertebrate Pathology and Microbial Control
 and the 48th Annual Meeting of the Society for Invertebrate Pathology.
 Vancouver, BC.
 http://www.sipmeeting.org/van1/SIP2015-Full Program.pdf.
 Type: Other Status: Published Year Published: 2015 Citation: Vaqalo, Maclean,
 Sean Marshall, Trevor Jackson, and Aubrey Moore.
 2015.
 Pest Alert 51: An Emerging Biotype of Coconut Rhinoceros Beetle Discovered
 in the Pacific.
 Suva, Fiji: Secretariat of the Pacific Community, Land Resources Division.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Progress 10/01/15 to 09/30/16 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Outputs
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Taxonomic Assistance 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
Peter's visit 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
collaboration with Luc LeBlanc; 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Specify 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
CRB: 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
ICE meeting 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Foreign exploration 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
Guam Biodiversity Inventory database 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
Datamining begun using Golden Gate Imagine Editor 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Crop Pests DB updated 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
iNat project
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Subsection
Impacts 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Publications 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
