#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass scrartcl
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{longtable}
\usepackage{url}
\usepackage{booktabs}
\usepackage{colortbl}
\usepackage{ragged2e}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks true
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\pdf_quoted_options "urlcolor=blue,linkcolor=blue"
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\multibib section
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Goal: Liberate data from biological collections 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Objective: Complete digitization of the UOG insect collection 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The UOG insect collection catalog has already been made available online
 using Symbiota.
 Note that Symbiota automatically uploads data to GBIF.
 The next phase of this digitization project will be imaging of all taxa
 in the collection.
 Existing images will be uploaded and linked to specimen data.
 Images will be made for taxa which have not been previously imaged and
 these will also be uploaded.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Objective: Complete digitization of the UOG herbarium 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Digital images are available for all herbarium sheets.
 The existing herbarium catalog will be converted from a local database
 to an online database using Symbiota or Specify.
 Both of these online collection database managers automatically upload
 to GBIF.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Objective: Liberate data from the scientific literature 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The PI will organize extraction of Guam biodiversity information from primary
 scientific publications, starting with Insects of Guam I and II.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Goal: Provide public access to Guam forest biodiversity data
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Objective: Build the Guam Forest Biodiversity Web Site 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The PI will launch a web site to serve as a portal to Guam forest biodiversity
 data stored in GBIF.
 Pages will be developed to dynamically generate lists such as those suggested
 above.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Goal: Foster public interest in Guam's forest biodiversity
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Objective: Outreach and Citizen Science Activities
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The PI will offer annual workshops on the use of iNaturalist, a social networkin
g app used by citizen scientists and naturalists which enables them to record
 biodiversity observations with images and georeferencing using smart phones.
 iNaturalist data which is validated as research grade by the community
 is automatically uploaded to GBIF.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The PI will continue to maintain an iNaturalist project entitled Insects
 of Micronesia.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The PI will work with the UOG Center for Island Sustainability to organize
 annual bioblitzes.
 A bioblitz is is an intense period of biological surveying in an attempt
 to record all the living species within a designated area.
 Participants in the bioblitzes will be trained to use iNaturalist which
 will be used to document results.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Goal: Foster collaboration to help overcome the 
\emph on
taxonomic impediment
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Objective: Collaboration with taxonomists, collectors and the biodiversity
 informatics community
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Collaboration with taxonomists will be cultivated to help identify a large
 backlog of unidentified specimens in the UOG insect collection.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Existing collaboration will be maintained with existing partners list in
 the Collaboration/Cooperation section of this proposal.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The PI will participate in at least one scientific meeting per year covering
 biological collections and/or biodiversity informatics.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The PI will encourage donation of voucher specimens to the UOG insect collection
 from biological surveys such as those being conducted by the Ecology of
 Bird Loss and the baseline surveys being done by military contractors in
 support of the military buildup.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
